### Full Stack UI Notes 15th Feb 2024

## Create a new Web Application
- Download and Install Node JS
- Install Visual Studio Code
- Install Extentions 


					 Create a new Web Application

FAQ: What is Web Server?
Ans:  It resembles both hardware and software that satisfies the client request by sending and receving data.
```
	 Web Server can be of two types
		a) Local Server
		b) Cloud Server
```
FAQ: What is a Website?
```
Ans:  Website is a virtual directory on Web Server.
	  It provides access to resources on server.
```
FAQ: What is Physical Path & Virtual Path?
Ans:  Every website or application comprises of 
```
		a) Physical Path 	
		    - It is the location where resources are kept.
		    - Resources can be images, videos, documents etc.
	
				D:\Amazon

		b) Virtual Path
		    - It is generated by a webserver to access the resources from physical path.
		    - It is used by clients to view and interact with resources.
		    - It have an "URL"  [Uniform Resource Locator]
```
				https://www.amazon.in

Note: Your local webserver IP address is  "http://127.0.0.1"  (or)  "http://localhost"


1. Open any location on your PC and create a folder for project.
```
		
			D:\amazon-shopping
```

2. Open Visual Studio Code

3. File Menu -> Open Folder ->  D:\amazon-shopping

4. Go to "Terminal Menu => New Terminal"   [ Ctrl + ` ]    backtick  

5. Run the command
```
			> npm   init  -y
```
     - It generates a new file into project by name "package.json".
     - package.json comprises of meta data, which is information about your application.
     - Application name, author name, license , versions, dependencies, batch  
       commands etc..
					JSON - JavaScript Object Notation

 
6. Add a new file into project by name  "README.md". It is used as developer manual for project.

7. Add following folders into project
```		
		a) public
		b) src
```
    - public folder is used for static resources:
		html, text documents, images, pdf, word docs, ppt, xslx, videos etc..

    - src folder is used for dynamic resources:
		.css, .scss, .ts, .js, .jsx, .spec.js, test.js  etc..

8. Add few folders into public
```
		> images
		> docs
		> video
```
9. Add images and docs into folders [.jpg, .png, .gif, .pdf..]


10. Click "Go Live" button in VS Code status bar.

11. Open any Browser and request the following
```
		http://127.0.0.1:5500
```

