### Full Stack UI Notes 20th Feb 2024

##  HTML Page Structure

HTML Parsing
```
   Markup => Bytes => Chars => Token [Tag] => Node [Elements] => DOM => Layout => Render => Paint
```
Elements in HTML
- Normal
- Void
- RC Data
- Raw Text
- Foreign 


						 HTML Page Structure

1. Every HTML page must have extention ".html"  or  ".htm"

FAQ: What is difference between "htm & html"?
Ans : Technically both are same. "htm" is extention given for web pages exported from other software tools. [MsWord]

2. Every page starts with "Document Declaration".
```
		<!DOCTYPE html>
```
    - It is used to specify that page is design in HTML 5.
    - Document declaration is used to configure version, language and other details.


3. Every page will have a "Document Scope".
```
	 <html>

	 </html>
```
   - Document scope defines start and end of document in browser.
   - You can display multiple documents in browser, which can merge into one page.
   - Hence for developer scope is important to handle manipulation.
   - Every document scope must define a language type.
```
	  <html  lang="en-in">
	  </html>
```
   - Language describes the formats for date, time and numbers in page.
   


4. Every document scope comprises of 2 sections
```
	a) <head>
	b) <body>
```
   - Head section comprises of content, which is first loaded into browser memory and then accessed by browser.
   - Body section comprise of content, which is directly rendered in browser.

FAQ: What is the purpose of content in memory?
Ans:  It saves round-trips. [Faster]

FAQ: What is round-trip?
Ans:  It is a process where the content is request always from server.
         Every time user request any content, it brings from server.


5. Contents in Head section
 
    - Head section comprises of content which is used to make the page more user friendly and SEO friendly. [Search Engine Optimization]
    - Head section is also important to make the page responsive.
    - Head section comprises of following elements
```
		a) title
		b) meta
		c) link
		d) script
		e) style
```
a) title
  - It defines the title to display in browser title bar.
  - It is used in bookmarking.
  - It is also used in SEO.
```
Syntax:
	<head>
	   <title> Amazon - Shopping </title>
	</head>
```
b) link
 - It is used to link external file to a webpage.
 - You can link short cut icons and css files.

  <link rel="shortcut icon"  href="image/favicon.ico">

  1. Open Ms Paint
  2. Go to File -> Image Properties -> set 32 x 32 pixels
  3. Draw image
  4. Save in your project folder by name  "favicon.ico"

index.html
```
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en-in">
  <head>
     <title>Amazon - Shopping</title>
     <link rel="shortcut icon" href="images/favicon.ico" >
  </head>
  <body>

  </body>
</html>
```


